feat: blog: Redesigning ESLint (#289)
eslint/eslint.org: src/content/drafts/redesigning-eslint.md

This was a bit of a dream project for me 😅 So, needless to say, we were totally in.

## The Brand

The ESLint Brand is an interesting one - without too much official visual design, the team have managed to create a brand that is unique and widely recognized by the developer community.

### The Logo

The logomark is at the core of ESLint's brand identity and one of the most identifiable pieces. It’s a connection to their ecosystem - you can find it everywhere, from IDE marketplaces to corporate sponsorship pages across the web. It carries with it the expectation of a community of developers who are passionate about the code they write.

While we kept the icon (given its widespread usage in websites, IDEs, platforms and projects), we wanted to make it that little bit more refined, modern and flexible. By bringing it together our new primary typeface, Space Grotesk (more on this below), we created a new ESLint logomark. Due to its simplicity, it works in a variety of colours and spaces.

> ![ESLint Logo Mockup](/src/assets/images/blog/2022/logo-mockup.png)

Reviewer: The images are not rendering in the preview. Can you try with path starting with `/assets` instead of `/src/assets` ?

Author: Done! Sorry, the `/src` is what helped my preview render properly while I was drafting.

### The Typeface

Typography is at the heart of the new ESLint brand - they're a very content-driven organisation. The website, docs, blog all need require great typography to be readable and enjoyable. The brand leverages a purposeful set of typographic styles, designed to make our content as accessible as possible for everyone.

> From a technical point of view, we wanted fonts that are widely accessible and conveniently located, so we’ll have access to it everywhere (particularly on other Google products) and it fits with our free and open-source “vibe”.

Reviewer 2: Matching tense. 

```suggestion
From a technical point of view, we wanted fonts that were widely accessible and conveniently located, so could access it everywhere (particularly on other Google products such as Docs and Slides) and it fits with the free and open-source theme.
```

> We decided to go with [Space Grotesk](https://fonts.floriankarsten.com/space-grotesk) — a fantastic, characteristic font that balances that flair with the technical geometric elements that reflect their more developer-centric side. It creates character with its idiosyncratic details that share principles with the logomark and brings life and energy to the brand by showcasing its more technical details.

Reviewer 2: A little cleanup. 

```suggestion
We decided to go with [Space Grotesk](https://fonts.floriankarsten.com/space-grotesk) — a fantastic, characteristic font that balances that flair with the technical geometric elements reflecting a more developer-centric side. It creates character with its idiosyncratic details that share principles with the logomark and brings life and energy to the brand by showcasing its more technical details.
```

![An example of the Space Grotesk font](/assets/images/blog/2022/space-grotesk.png)

Space Grotesk works hand-in-hand with it’s origin sister font, Space Mono. It was developed for editorial use in headline and display typography, the letterforms infuse a geometric foundation and grotesque details with qualities often found in headline typefaces of the 1960s, many of which have since been co-opted by science fiction films, television, and literature.

![An example of the Space Mono font](/assets/images/blog/2022/spacemono-satellites.gif)

> ### The Colours

Reviewer 2: US 😁 
```suggestion
### The Colors
```

Author: I'm based in the U.S. now! 🇺🇸 Gotta get used to this before they kick me out 😅

> ESLint’s colour palette speaks to the brand in ways that are every bit as powerful as the copy and logo. It not only affect how the brand design looks, but can go as far as to elicit emotion and reflect the personality of the ESLint brand. Colors also play an important role in how our designs "look & feel", and are the first impression.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ESLint’s color palette speaks to the brand in ways that are every bit as powerful as the copy and logo. It not only affects how the brand design looks, but can go as far as to elicit emotion and reflect the personality of the ESLint brand. Colors are the first impression a design makes, and as such, play an important role in a design’s look and feel. 
```

> While color can be subjective, it's clear that good colors can attact and convert users. Bad colors, on the other hand, can turn away users and even make designs inaccessible and unusable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While color can be subjective, it's clear that good colors can attract and convert users. Bad colors, on the other hand, can turn away users and even make designs inaccessible and unusable.
```

> Due to the functional nature of ESLint, we chose to keep it simple with a primary, neutral and small set of secondary palettes. The new primary colour palette is derived from the original logo — we use the two existing colours to create a unique primary tonal range.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to the functional nature of ESLint, we chose to keep it simple with a primary, neutral and small set of secondary palettes. The new primary color palette is derived from the original logo — we use the two existing colors to create a unique primary tonal range.
```

![A snapshot of ESLint's color palette](/assets/images/blog/2022/eslint-colors.png)

## The Website

Next up was the redesign of the [ESLint website](https://eslint.org/). Besides maximising the visual appeal of the site, we had a few goals we wanted to achieve for each page. For example, on the homepage:

1. We wanted to include the latest and upcoming versions of ESLint in the hero section. This was a key part of the design, as it would be the first time we had a dedicated section for ESLint updates.
2. We wanted to promote sponsorship. ESLint relies on donations for ongoing maintenance and development, and we wanted to make sure that we could help accelerate the growth of the project.
3. We wanted to show ESLint in action — how it can be used in the real world, and how it can be used to make your code more readable.

> 4. We wanted to showcase some of the incredible stats that ESLint has amassed — as of right now, that's 9M dependants, 25.7M weekly downloads and 21K stars on GitHub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. We wanted to showcase some of the incredible stats that ESLint has amassed — as of right now, that's 9M dependents, 25.7M weekly downloads and 21K stars on GitHub.
```

![A mockup of the new ESLint homepage design](/assets/images/blog/2022/eslint-website-home.png)

I also wanted to introduce some animation and life into the ESLint homepage hero while giving our audience a sense of what it's like to work with ESLint.

> The red underline in VS Code is synonymous with ESLint, as is the way VS Code implements ESLint action items. Using these visual indicators, I created a small but fun interaction that gives our visitors the simplified experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The red underline in VS Code is synonymous with ESLint, as it is the way VS Code implements ESLint action items. Using these visual indicators, I created a small but fun interaction that gives our visitors a simplified experience.
```

> The red underline in VS Code is synonymous with ESLint, as is the way VS Code implements ESLint action items. Using these visual indicators, I created a small but fun interaction that gives our visitors the simplified experience.

Reviewer 2: Could we add in the animated gif of the animation to this section?

Author: Yeah definitely - I was hoping to do that! Is there a way of using video (mp4, stream from Vimeo maybe) or does it need to be gif?

I was particularly happy with how this idea turned out! 💡

By incorporating elements of the wider brand including IDE integration, code snippets and supporter logos, we brought the brand to life. Plus, no dev site would be complete without a testimonial from Addy Osmani.

> Needed something that could scale well with a lean engineering-focused team powered by community contributions.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph seems out of place. Okay to remove it?

Author: Sorry yeah, sentence fragment leftover from my draft. I'll delete it!

## The Docs

> Next up was the mack daddy, redesigning the ESLint documentation. The docs are a central part of ESLint’s ecosystem and are the place where users can find information about the project, as well as the codebase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next up was the mack daddy, redesigning the ESLint documentation. The docs are a central part of ESLint’s ecosystem and are the place where users find information about the project as well as the codebase.
```

> We wanted to give it a bit of a revamp, creating a consistent IA across all the pages, plus making pages easier to scan and navigate. We also added in a version dropdown to view previous versions of docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We wanted to give it a bit of a revamp, creating a consistent information architecture (IA) across all pages, plus making pages easier to scan and navigate. We also added in a version dropdown to view previous versions of docs.
```

![A mockup of the new ESLint Docs design](/assets/images/blog/2022/eslint-docs.png)

I also published the little Carbon Ads component as a [Figma Community file](https://www.figma.com/community/file/1019502569915291740)!

> ## The Playground

Reviewer 2: This part is a bit sparse. Can you elaborate a bit on some of the design decisions? I recall discussing things like how it was important to show ESLint version, how it should work on mobile, the ability to fix individual problems (which wasn’t available in the old demo).

Also, I think a screenshot here would go well with the rest of the article.

Author: We have a screenshot! But yeah definitely I'll expand some more on this 👍

> The last part of the ESLint brand and redesign project was a new microsite called Playground! It's a fantastic little tool that allows you to create an ESLint configuration file with easy-to-use settings and test your code against it. Then, once you're happy with it, you can download your config as an `.eslintrc` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The last part of the ESLint brand and redesign project was a new microsite called Playground! It's a fantastic little tool that allows you to create an ESLint configuration file with easy-to-use settings and test your code against it. Then, once you're happy with it, you can download your config file to use locally. 
```

We were fortunate enough to work with the ESLint team on their new brand and website. I'm a huge fan of ESLint and use it every day, even going to the effort of writing my own [600-line ESLint config](https://github.com/haydenbleasel/harmony) to use across all my React, Next.js and Expo projects.

[Nicholas](https://github.com/nzakas) originally reached out to us on Twitter to kick off the largest project the ESLint team has taken on in its nine years of existence. He wanted to create a stronger brand identity for the ESLint team and its community, and make the website more functional, easier to navigate, and more useful to everyone from new users to established users. 

> Hi Hayden, I wanted to say thanks for the donation to ESLint. As it so happens, the project is looking for a bit of a rebrand (keep the logo, change everything else) and website redesign, so I was wondering if you’d be interested. It just seemed like a potentially good match.

This was a bit of a dream project for me 😅 So, needless to say, we were totally in.

## The Brand

> The ESLint Brand is an interesting one - without too much official visual design, the team have managed to create a brand that is unique and widely recognized by the developer community.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ESLint Brand is an interesting one - without too much official visual design, the team has managed to create a brand that is unique and widely recognized by the developer community.
```

4. We wanted to showcase some of the incredible stats that ESLint has amassed — as of right now, that's 9M dependents, 25.7M weekly downloads and 21K stars on GitHub.

![A mockup of the new ESLint homepage design](/assets/images/blog/2022/eslint-website-home.png)

I also wanted to introduce some animation and life into the ESLint homepage hero while giving our audience a sense of what it's like to work with ESLint.

The red underline in VS Code is synonymous with ESLint, as it is the way VS Code implements ESLint action items. Using these visual indicators, I created a small but fun interaction that gives our visitors a simplified experience.

I was particularly happy with how this idea turned out! 💡

By incorporating elements of the wider brand including IDE integration, code snippets and supporter logos, we brought the brand to life. Plus, no dev site would be complete without a testimonial from Addy Osmani.

## The Docs

Next up was the mack daddy, redesigning the ESLint documentation. The docs are a central part of ESLint’s ecosystem and are the place where users find information about the project as well as the codebase.

> We wanted to give it a bit of a revamp, creating a consistent information architecture (IA) across all pages, as well as make the pages easier to scan and navigate. We also added in a version dropdown to view previous versions of docs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We wanted to give it a bit of a revamp, creating a consistent information architecture (IA) across all pages, as well as making the pages easier to scan and navigate. We also added a version dropdown to view previous versions of the docs.
```

We started designing Playground with a few key requirements in mind — specifically we wanted to make it easy to use, and to make it easy to create and share reproducible bugs with ESLint. Users should also be able to switch between different versions of ESLint, see potential fixes to given problems and install plugins.

There were a few tricky design challenges to overcome here — particularly around the density of information. Exposing all rules in the UI would make things visually difficult to parse, so we needed a way of adding rules to the UI without having to scroll down to the bottom of the page, then customising the value of each rule easily.

![A mockup of the new ESLint Playground app](/assets/images/blog/2022/eslint-playground.png)

## What's next?

The ESLint team are currently rolling out everything above (you're on the new website right now!).

> I want to thank the ESLint team, especially Nicholas, for the opportunity to work with on this project. I was also very fortunate to work with such talented and passionate people, such as [Sara](https://www.sarasoueidan.com/) and [Gavin](https://gavinbarnett.com/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
I want to thank the ESLint team, especially Nicholas, for the opportunity to work on this project. I was also very fortunate to work with such talented and passionate people, such as [Sara](https://www.sarasoueidan.com/) and [Gavin](https://gavinbarnett.com/).
```

## The Playground

The last part of the project was a new microsite called Playground! It's a fantastic little tool that allows you to create an ESLint configuration file with easy-to-use settings and test your code against it. Then, once you're happy with it, you can download your config file to use locally. Its also a fantastic way of allowing new users to try ESLint directly in the browser.

> We started designing Playground with a few key requirements in mind — specifically we wanted to make it easy to use, and to make it easy to create and share reproducible bugs with ESLint. Users should also be able to switch between different versions of ESLint, see potential fixes to given problems and install plugins.

Reviewer 2: Probably worth calling this out. 

```suggestion
We started designing Playground with a few key requirements in mind — specifically we wanted to make it easy to use, and to make it easy to create and share reproducible bugs with ESLint. Users should also be able to switch between different versions of ESLint, see potential fixes to given problems and install plugins. Ultimately the team couldn’t implement all of these features, but we designed for them all the same. 
```

Author: Ah fair! I thought they might be on the roadmap but all good, happy to add this.
